well good evening folks this is aunt
eliason and for the last few days I've
been talking about doing an acid test on
gold to determine whether gold is
actually gone or if it's just fake
jewelry in my hands here is an acid test
kit you can pick one of these up for
about 15 bucks I got mine at the local
metal detectors store and what it has is
a little black stone you stretch your
jewelry on it get a good mark across the
stone then you apply acids we've got 10
karat acid here we've got 14 karat acid
and 18 karat acid and by using those
assets we can determine the carrot value
of a particular gold jewelry piece or
whether it's even gold at all we're
going to be doing that here in a moment
to give you a demonstration so y'all can
see how it's done okay let's get started
hey here we have our acid test kit laid
out you've got your three acids there's
a 10-carat acid over there is the 18
karat acid here is the 14 karat acid and
we have three items two of these are
marked as 14 karat gold this one here
however isn't marked at all we're going
to test all three okay here we go okay
we're getting ready to go ahead and do
the gold test here is an item it is a
bracelet that the casual observer might
look like gold we're going to test it
because I know it isn't but we're going
to show you how the gold test works we
get a good piece there well we can do
some rubbing on this stone and we start
rubbing like so until we get a nice line
there like that you see that line
showing through that line right there is
what we're going to test that's item
number one this item here is also marked
14 karat gold I already know it is but
for the purposes of this demonstration
we're going to go ahead and we're going
to run that also on the stone back and
forth until we get a good solid line out
of that I'm running all over to stone
i'm not doing real good there okay so
item1 item2 and here is item three we
don't know whether that's gold or not so
we're just going to go ahead and scratch
that on there and it's looking like it
might be ok now comes the acid test when
we determine whether these are actually
gold or not we're going to start with
the 10 karat test acid right there here
we go we're going to put a streak across
the top of this like that and now if
you'll look you'll see that two of the
lines have disappeared over on this end
it's gone over on this end the line is
gone in the middle the line is they're
nice and bright which means that that is
at least 10 carats that's the least 10
karat gold we're going to test it one
more time now we already know the other
two are not gold we're going to go back
and we're going to take the 14 karat
acid right here and we're going to test
that line as well before we do that I'm
just going to run that across there so
that we've got a good line all the way
across ok here's the 14 karat acid and
as I go across you notice the other two
are flat gone they are gone right out of
the chute there is no doubt that the
other two are not gold but if you look
at the one in the middle the gold shines
through that's how you test an item to
determine whether it's actually gold or
not once you've done your acid test it
is important that you go ahead and
scrape all that stuff off of there that
is acid so it will burn you you want to
be careful not to get it on your skin
okay our stone is getting nice and clean
we're ready to go to our next event okay
so what we learned from our gold test
today is while this may be marked 14
karat
and it may look real cool it may look
real nice when you get it out of the
hole that is not gold and you can tell
too because it's a little bit different
in color than actual gold this one item
number two that we tested is definitely
14-karat gold not only is the medallion
gold but so is the chain because I've
already tested both of those this i
found today could have been gold
obviously it isn't alright so that's our
acid test kit and we'll go back and put
all that away and be right back okay I
don't know if you heard the phone
ringing but that was pits through call
and I'm trying to get him to come back
over to the house we've cleaned up our
work area always important to make sure
you put your stuff away so they haven't
available the next time if you find any
gold of any consequence you can test it
immediately and know whether you've got
gold or not an alternative method would
be to go to a pawn shop or maybe go to a
jewelry store and ask them to give it a
look for you but it's always a lot
better if you can do it on your own
right at home okay so that's it for this
video if you got any questions we're
also going to be taking a look at the
silver test kit here it is the silver
test kit to determine whether something
is actually silver but that's another
video for a time later on when I learn
how to use the silver test kit myself
have a great night hush peduncle hunt
next time you're out and hasta luego
from my lesson we'll see on the flip
side
you